OBJECTIVE
  Protect the SSH server of this machine with fail2ban. Addresses that
  fail to log in too often are banned in the firewall, while the local
  network and the loopback addresses are never banned.

PREREQUISITES
  - Internet access to the Rocky Linux and EPEL mirrors.
  - fail2ban is not installed when the lab starts, and firewalld is
    running.

TASKS
  1. Install the package fail2ban from the EPEL repository. Enable
     EPEL first if this system does not have it yet.
  2. Enable the jail sshd. Put its settings in the file
     /etc/fail2ban/jail.local or in a file in /etc/fail2ban/jail.d.
     The file /etc/fail2ban/jail.conf stays unchanged.
  3. The jail sshd bans an address after 4 failed logins within 15
     minutes. A ban lasts 1 hour.
  4. The jail sshd never bans these addresses (setting ignoreip):

       127.0.0.1/8
       ::1
       the IPv4 network of the interface that carries the default
       route of {{HOSTNAME}}, in CIDR notation, for example
       172.25.250.0/24

     That network contains the workstation, which manages this lab
     over SSH.
  5. Bans of the jail sshd are firewalld rules. This is the default
     ban action of the fail2ban package on Rocky Linux; keep it.
  6. The service fail2ban is enabled and running, and its
     configuration reloads without errors.

EXPECTED RESULT
  The status of the jail sshd shows it running with no banned
  addresses. An address banned in the jail appears as a firewalld
  rule, and the rule goes away when the address is unbanned.

NOTES
  - Do not test the jail with failed logins from the workstation or
    from any address in your local network. A ban of the workstation
    locks labctl out of {{HOSTNAME}} for the whole ban time.
  - The grader bans and unbans the documentation address 192.0.2.77,
    which no real client uses.
  - Root privileges (sudo) are needed for all tasks.
  - Reference: man jail.conf, man fail2ban-client, man ip-route.
  - labctl reset removes fail2ban with its configuration, its bans
    and the EPEL repository.

GRADING
  labctl grade fail2ban-01
