OBJECTIVE
  A colleague prepared the NetworkManager profile labnet to give the
  first free interface of {{HOSTNAME}} a static address on the lab
  network. The connection does not come up, and after a restart the
  interface gets the wrong address. Find every cause and fix it, so
  that labnet works now and after every boot.

PREREQUISITES
  - {{HOSTNAME}} has a default-route interface (it carries SSH) and
    free Ethernet interfaces on an isolated network without a DHCP
    server.
  - The lab uses the first free interface: the first Ethernet
    interface, in name order, that does not carry the default route.
    Its name is the first line of /opt/linux-labs/state/networking-05.
  - The automatic NetworkManager profile of that interface, if there
    is one, is disabled while the lab is active. "labctl reset" turns
    it back on.

TASKS
  1. The profile labnet exists and is bound to the free interface by
     its interface name.
  2. labnet configures IPv4 statically with exactly one address,
     192.168.50.10/24, and no gateway.
  3. labnet connects automatically.
  4. labnet is active on the free interface now, and the interface
     has the address 192.168.50.10/24. No default route uses the free
     interface.
  5. No other profile for the free interface connects automatically,
     so labnet is the profile the interface gets at every boot.
  6. Do not change the default-route interface or its connection
     profile. The default route must still use it.

EXPECTED RESULT
  labnet is active on the free interface with 192.168.50.10/24 and
  comes up by itself after a reboot. The SSH session is unaffected.

PRACTICE (not graded)
  - Take labnet down and up again and check that the address returns.
  - Read the NetworkManager messages in the journal for each failed
    activation and match them with the cause you found.

NOTES
  - Fix one problem, try again and read the error again: one fault
    can hide the next.
  - Editing labnet or replacing it with a new profile of the same
    name are both fine. Only the final state is graded.
  - Reference: man nmcli, man nmcli-examples, man nm-settings-nmcli
    (sections connection and ipv4) and man journalctl.

GRADING
  labctl grade networking-05
