OBJECTIVE
  Build a loopback-backed LVM volume group, snapshot a logical volume
  and show that the snapshot keeps the earlier state.

PREREQUISITES
  - Root access through sudo. Rocky Linux 8 and 9 behave the same.
  - Use only the lab's own image file. Do not touch the existing rl
    volume group or the disk that holds it.

TASKS
  1. Create the file /tmp/snap.img with a size of at least 150 MiB
     and attach it to a loop device.
  2. Make the loop device an LVM physical volume and create the
     volume group snapvg on it. The group uses no other device.
  3. Create the logical volume original in snapvg with a size of
     exactly 100 MiB. Format it with an ext4 file system and mount
     it on /mnt/original.
  4. Create the file /mnt/original/before.txt. Its only content is
     the line "before snapshot". Create it before the snapshot.
  5. Create the snapshot logical volume snap1 of original, with a
     size of at least 20 MiB, and mount it on /mnt/snap1.
  6. After the snapshot exists, create the file
     /mnt/original/testfile.txt. Its only content is the line
     "after snapshot". The snapshot must not contain this file, and
     it must still contain before.txt.

EXPECTED RESULT
  /mnt/original shows before.txt and testfile.txt. /mnt/snap1 shows
  only before.txt, the state of the volume when the snapshot was
  taken. The snapshot is active and not full.

PRACTICE (not graded)
  - Write more data to original and watch how the snapshot fills up.
  - Merge snap1 back into original to roll the volume back. A merge
    removes the snapshot, so do it only after grading and finish
    with labctl reset.

NOTES
  - The loop device does not survive a reboot, so no persistent
    mounts are required. If you add entries to /etc/fstab for this
    lab, they must use the nofail option, or the system may fail to
    boot when the loop device is missing.
  - labctl reset removes the volume group, the loop device, the
    image file, the mount points and any fstab entries of this lab.
  - Reference: man lvm, man lvcreate, man lvconvert and man losetup.

GRADING
  labctl grade storage-03
