OBJECTIVE
  Install a Redis server on {{HOSTNAME}}, protect it with a password,
  make it keep its data on disk and open it to the network.

PREREQUISITES
  - Rocky Linux 8 or 9 with internet access to the package
    repositories. The package redis comes from AppStream: Redis 5 on
    Rocky Linux 8, Redis 6 on Rocky Linux 9. Valkey is a different
    product and is not accepted here.
  - Root access through sudo.

TASKS
  1. Install Redis. Run the redis service now and make it start at
     every boot.
  2. Make Redis listen on TCP port 6379 on two addresses: 127.0.0.1
     and the IPv4 address of {{HOSTNAME}} on its default-route
     interface. That address is on the line address= in the file
     /opt/linux-labs/state/redis-01. Listening on the wildcard address
     0.0.0.0 does not count.
  3. Require the password labredis42 from every client. A client that
     has not authenticated gets an error instead of an answer to PING.
     Set only this password. Redis 5 has no ACL users.
  4. Turn on append-only file (AOF) persistence. The append-only file
     must exist in the Redis data directory.
  5. Limit Redis to 128 MB of memory: maxmemory is 134217728 bytes.
     When the limit is reached, Redis evicts the least recently used
     keys of all keys (policy allkeys-lru).
  6. Store the key lab:status with the string value ready.
  7. Make the password, AOF persistence, the memory limit with its
     policy and the key lab:status survive a restart of the redis
     service.
  8. Open port 6379/tcp in the firewall, in the running configuration
     and permanently.

EXPECTED RESULT
  The redis service is enabled and running and listens on 127.0.0.1
  and on the server address. Without the password every command but
  authentication fails. The settings are in the configuration file, so
  a restart keeps them, and the key lab:status comes back from the
  append-only file.

PRACTICE (not graded)
  - From the workstation, connect to Redis on {{HOSTNAME}} over the
    network with the password.
  - Store a few more keys, restart the service and read them back.

NOTES
  - The configuration file is /etc/redis.conf on Rocky Linux 8 and
    /etc/redis/redis.conf on Rocky Linux 9. Its comments describe
    every setting.
  - Grading restarts the redis service.
  - Setup removes Redis if it is installed. labctl reset removes
    Redis with its data and puts back what was installed before.
  - Use any valid Linux commands. Only the final state is graded;
    command history is not evaluated.
  - Reference: man systemctl, man firewall-cmd and the Redis
    configuration file.

GRADING
  labctl grade redis-01
