OBJECTIVE
  Bring the time service on {{HOSTNAME}} back after a botched package
  update, and undo a package install that nobody asked for.

PREREQUISITES
  - During an update of chrony, rpm found a locally changed
    /etc/chrony.conf. It kept that file and put the default
    configuration of the new package next to it. Since then, chronyd
    no longer starts.
  - In the same session, the most recent dnf transaction installed a
    package that is not wanted on this server, together with its
    dependencies.
  - {{LAB_USER}} has sudo rights. The lab works the same on Rocky
    Linux 8 and 9.

TASKS
  1. The service chronyd is enabled at boot and running.
  2. chronyd reads /etc/chrony.conf without errors or warnings.
  3. /etc/chrony.conf is the default configuration of the installed
     chrony package, plus these two local lines, kept from the old
     file:

       allow 172.25.250.0/24
       local stratum 10

     Every other active line equals a line of the default
     configuration, and no line of the default is missing. Comments
     and blank lines do not matter.
  4. No .rpmnew or .rpmsave file of chrony is left anywhere under
     /etc.
  5. The package that the most recent dnf transaction installed at
     the start of the lab, and the dependencies that came with it,
     are no longer installed.
  6. Every package that was installed before the lab started is
     still installed.

EXPECTED RESULT
  chronyd runs with the configuration that the current chrony package
  ships, serves time to the classroom network and keeps serving it
  when no time source is reachable.

PRACTICE (not graded)
  - List the files of the chrony package that changed since it was
    installed, and explain each flag in the output.
  - Find out which package owns a program that the unwanted package
    installed.

NOTES
  - The old /etc/chrony.conf was written for ntpd and later moved to
    chrony. Apart from the two local lines, nothing in it needs to be
    kept.
  - Find the unwanted package in the history of dnf. Do not remove
    other packages.
  - Use any valid Linux commands. Only the final state is graded;
    command history is not evaluated.
  - Reference: man rpm (section VERIFY OPTIONS), man dnf (section
    History Command), man chrony.conf, man chronyd and man
    journalctl.

GRADING
  labctl grade packages-07
